Docs: Add data-fetching docs (#458)
vtex/faststore: docs/wip/data-fetching.md

## How to fetch data for your pages

One of the main benefits of Gatsby is its hybrid nature capable of static and dynamic data fetching, which means that is possible to fetch data in build time as well in runtime on client-side. The choice of which approach to use depends on the nature of the data and its context, in the section below we will explain the difference with examples.

> > If you want to read more about this topic, check the [Data Fetching](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/data-fetching/) Gatsby documentation.

Reviewer: _If you want to read more about this topic, check the [Data Fetching](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/data-fetching/) Gatsby documentation._ 
 
 Using italic instead of a quote mark

### Static data

> Static data is the content that does not change frequently or per user interaction. For example, a product's page can be a data retrieve static since the description and attributes of product don't change very often. This means that this data can be fetch during build time and when the user access the products page the data is already loaded.

Reviewer: "`Static data` is the content that does not change frequently or per user interaction. 
Considering that, you can use the fecthing during building time for data that don't change very often, making the storefront loading faster. 

For example, a product's page can be a data retrieve static since the description and attributes of a product rarely chages. This means that this data can be fetch during build time and when the user access the products page the data is already loaded."

the sugestion is to put the conclusion before the exemple, so we can be straight to the point. Also, smaller text lines

> There is two ways to fetch static data in Gatsby: [Page Query](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/recipes/querying-data#querying-data-with-a-page-query) and [Static Query](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/querying-data/static-query/#reach-skip-nav).

Reviewer: " There are two ways for fetch static data in Gatsby: 
 - [Page Query](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/recipes/querying-data#querying-data-with-a-page-query) and;
 - [Static Query](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/querying-data/static-query/#reach-skip-nav)."
 
 They are explained below.

### Dynamic data

> If the data constantly changes or depends on the user's interaction, it is a strong indication that it must be dynamic. For example, the shipping calculation changes depending on the location of the user who is interacting or other example is the implementation of a shopping cart that changes its data every time a product is added, being necessary to communicate with the backend of the application every time that the user interacts with the cart.

Reviewer: "If the data constantly changes or depends on the user's interaction,  make it to be dynamic fetched. 

For example: when a shipping calculation changes depending on the user's location or when implementing a shopping cart that display diferrent content every time a product is added, demanding backend communcation at every user's change — use the dynamic"

> For fetching data at runtime in the browser, you can use any method to retrieve data that you would use in a regular React app, such as using the `fetch` API for retrivieng data of a Rest API or `apollo-client` to retrieve from a GraphQL API.

Reviewer: "For fetching data at runtime in the browser, you can apply any method to retrieve data that you would use in a regular React app, such as the `fetch` API for retrivieng data of a Rest API or `apollo-client` to retrieve from a GraphQL API."

> ## What we provided out of the box with `gatsby-source-vtex`

Reviewer: ## What we provide with `gatsby-source-vtex`  that is out of the box

> `gatsby-source-vtex` plugin connects the [Gatsby data layer]((https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/porting-from-create-react-app-to-gatsby/#unified-graphql-data-layer)) to [VTEX's GraphQL](https://github.com/vtex-apps/store-graphql) allowing to access VTEX API through your Gatsby application.

Reviewer: `gatsby-source-vtex` plugin connects the [Gatsby data layer]((https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/porting-from-create-react-app-to-gatsby/#unified-graphql-data-layer)) to [VTEX's GraphQL](https://github.com/vtex-apps/store-graphql) allowing it to access VTEX API through your Gatsby application.

> 

Reviewer: ### Plugin setup

> For the plugin to work it is necessary in the `gatsby-config.js` file to change the `STORE_ID` variable to the desired VTEX account. It is also possible to edit the variables `enviroment` and` workspace`, example:

Reviewer: For the plugin setup, go the `gatsby-config.js` file and change the `STORE_ID` variable to the desired VTEX account. 

It is also possible to edit the variables `enviroment` and` workspace`, example:

```js
plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `@vtex/gatsby-source-vtex`,
      options: {
        tenant: STORE_ID, // VTEX's account
        environment: 'vtexcommercestable' , // it can be vtexcommercestable or vtexcommercebeta
        workspace: 'master', // https://vtex.io/docs/concepts/workspace/ 
      },
    },
```

> If all goes well, when running the site with the command `yarn develop` the output at the end will contain the URL to access Gatsby's Graphql playground:

Reviewer: Run the site with the `yarn develop` command, than check if the output at the end of the running summary contains the URL to access Gatsby's Graphql playground:

```
View GraphiQL, an in-browser IDE, to explore your site data and schema
⠀
http://localhost:8000/___graphql
```

> Access this URL and you will see in the Schema all queries and mutations of the VTEX API, feel free to test the queries and see what they return. To use this data on your website, just follow what is indicated in the previous topic of [How to fetch data for your pages] (# How-to-fetch-data-for-your-pages).

Reviewer: Access this URL and to see all queries and mutations of the VTEX API in the Schema. 
 
Feel free to test the queries and see what they return. To use this data on your website, just follow what is indicated in the previous topic of [How to fetch data for your pages] (# How-to-fetch-data-for-your-pages).

## How to fetch data for your pages

> One of the main benefits of Gatsby is its hybrid nature capable of static and dynamic data fetching, which means that is possible to fetch data in build time as well in runtime on client-side. The choice of which approach to use depends on the nature of the data and its context, in the section below we will explain the difference with examples.
> 
> *If you want to read more about this topic, check the Data Fetching Gatsby documentation.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Leveraging from [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/)'s hybrid nature of fetching static and dynamic data, the Store Framework Jamstack (SFJ) allows you to create both fast static and engaging dynamic content.

That means it's possible to fetch data in build time - for static contents, or in runtime on the client-side - for dynamic contents.

In the following sections, you'll learn whether to use static or dynamic content depending on the nature of the data and its context.

>ℹ️ We strongly encourage you to check Gatsby's documentation on [querying for data with Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/querying-data/).
```

### Static data

> `Static data` is the content that does not change frequently or per user interaction.
> Considering that, you can use the fetching during building time for data that don't change very often, making the storefront loading faster.
> 
> For example, a product's page can be a data retrieve static since the description and attributes of a product rarely chages. This means that this data can be fetch during build time and when the user access the products page the data is already loaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Static data is the content that does not change frequently or per user interaction. We recommend using static rendering when the content doesn't change very often, and when you want to guarantee the fastest possible loading time.

Take the following example: imagine you have a product page, whose descriptions, attributes, and photos rarely change. In this case, you can benefit from retrieving fast static data during build time so that, when a customer accesses this product page, the data is almost instantly loaded.

>ℹ️ *Notice that, on the same page, you can have both static and dynamic data. For example, you can have dynamic data for your product price.*
```

> There are two ways for fetch static data in Gatsby:
>   - [Page Query](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/recipes/querying-data#querying-data-with-a-page-query)
>   - [Static Query](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/querying-data/static-query/#reach-skip-nav).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gatsby provides two ways to fetch static data:

- Using a [Page Query](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/recipes/querying-data#querying-data-with-a-page-query) to query data from your SFJ store's pages.
- Using a [Static Query](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/querying-data/static-query/#reach-skip-nav) to retrieve data via a GraphQL query.
```

### Dynamic data

> If the data constantly changes or depends on the user's interaction, make it to be dynamic fetched.
> 
> For example: when a shipping calculation changes depending on the user's location or when implementing a shopping cart that display diferrent content every time a product is added, demanding backend communcation at every user's change — use the dynamic.
> 
> For fetching data at runtime in the browser, you can apply any method to retrieve data that you would use in a regular React app, such as the `fetch` API for retrivieng data of a Rest API or `apollo-client` to retrieve from a GraphQL API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dynamic data is the content that constantly changes or which relies on user's interactions.

Take the following example: imagine you have a shipping calculator component, which regularly changes depending on the user's location. In this case, using static data is not an option.

Interactive components, such as shipping calculators or shopping carts, must obligatorily incorporate a backend communication capability so they can retrieve data when a customer interacts with your website.

For client runtime data fetching, you can apply any method you would use in a regular [React](https://reactjs.org/) app. For example, using the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) to retrieve data from a Rest API or an [Apollo client](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/) to retrieve data from a [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) API.
```

> ## What we provide with `gatsby-source-vtex` that is out of the box
> 
> `gatsby-source-vtex` plugin connects the [Gatsby data layer](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/porting-from-create-react-app-to-gatsby/#unified-graphql-data-layer) to [VTEX's GraphQL](https://github.com/vtex-apps/store-graphql) allowing it to access VTEX API through your Gatsby application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Fetching data in the SFJ

The [`@vtex/gatsby-source-vtex`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/@vtex/gatsby-source-vtex/?=vtex) plugin, pre-setted in the [Store Components starter](https://github.com/vtex-sites/storecomponents.store), is used to fetch data from all VTEX public [REST API's](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-developer-docs/reference/get-to-know-vtex-apis) that powers VTEX stores.

>ℹ️ The [`@vtex/gatsby-source-vtex`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/@vtex/gatsby-source-vtex/?=vtex) plugin connects the [Gatsby data layer](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/porting-from-create-react-app-to-gatsby/#unified-graphql-data-layer) to the VTEX [Store GraphQL interface](https://github.com/vtex-apps/store-graphql) allowing Gatsby to access VTEX API's through your SFJ application.
```

> 
> ### Plugin Setup
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

For the plugin setup, go the `gatsby-config.js` file and change the `STORE_ID` variable to the desired VTEX account.

> It is also possible to edit the variables `enviroment` and `workspace`, example:

Reviewer 2: Eu fiquei confusa aqui. Por que mudar essas variáveis? O conceito de workspace afetaria o que exatamente?

Author: Adicionei pensando que era ideal usar workspaces para fazer testes de desenvolvimento caso seja necessário 🤔 mas removi essa parte com o novo texto

> For the plugin setup, go the `gatsby-config.js` file and change the `STORE_ID` variable to the desired VTEX account.
> 
> It is also possible to edit the variables `enviroment` and `workspace`, example:
> 
> ```js
> plugins: [
>     {
>       resolve: `@vtex/gatsby-source-vtex`,
>       options: {
>         tenant: STORE_ID, // VTEX's account
>         environment: 'vtexcommercestable' , // it can be vtexcommercestable or vtexcommercebeta
>         workspace: 'master', // https://vtex.io/docs/concepts/workspace/ 
>       },
>     },
> ```
> 
> Run the site with the `yarn develop` command, than check if the output at the end of the running summary contains the URL to access Gatsby's GraphQl playground:
> 
> ```
> View GraphiQL, an in-browser IDE, to explore your site data and schema
> ⠀
> http://localhost:8000/___graphql
> ```
> 
> Access this URL and to see all queries and mutations of the VTEX API in the Schema.
> 
> Feel free to test the queries and see what they return. To use this data on your website, just follow what is indicated in the previous topic of [How to fetch data for your pages](#How-to-fetch-data-for-your-pages).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To be able to use this plugin, it's necessary to configure its settings. Take the following steps:

1. Open your SFJ project in any code editor of your choosing.
2. From the root directory, go to the `gatsby-config.js` file.
3. Head to `plugins` and, inside `@vtex/gatsby-source-vtex`, replace the `STORE_ID` value with the `name` of your VTEX account.

>ℹ️ *The [`gatsby-config.js`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/config-files/gatsby-config/) file defines your site’s metadata, plugins, and other general configurations.*

    ```js
    plugins: [
        {
          resolve: `@vtex/gatsby-source-vtex`,
          options: {
            tenant: STORE_ID, // VTEX account name
            environment: 'vtexcommercestable' , // it can be vtexcommercestable or vtexcommercebeta
            workspace: 'master', // https://vtex.io/docs/concepts/workspace/ 
          },
        },
    ```

4. Run the site with the `yarn develop` command. At the end of the running summary, you'll receive a successful message with the URL to the [Gatsby GraphQl playground](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/using-graphql-playground/#reach-skip-nav).

    ```
    View GraphiQL, an in-browser IDE, to explore your site data and schema
    ⠀
    http://localhost:8000/___graphql
    ```

Now, if you access this URL in your browser, you'll be able to fetch and change data from the [Store GraphQL interface](https://github.com/vtex-apps/store-graphql). Feel free to test the queries and see what they return. 

To use this data on your website, follow the referenced links in the [How to fetch data for your pages](#How-to-fetch-data-for-your-pages) section.
```
